## Collaboration Board and Working Group Charter Template

Every Collaboration Board (CB) and Working Group (WG) requires a charter that
describes the scope of the CB's or WG's responsibilities. Once written, new CBs
send a Pull Request that adds the charter to the Technical Advisory Committee's
(TAC) README.md while new WGs send a Pull Request to the TAC's WORKING_GROUPS.md
document. The CB or WG is considered to be officially chartered once the PR
adding the proposed charter is landed and merged into the relevant document.

### Template: *[insert CB/WG name]*

The *[insert CB/WG name]* is jointly governed by an elected group of members
that is responsible for high-level guidance of this project or set of projects.

The *[CB or WG]* has final authority over:

* Governance and process (including this policy)
* Contribution policy
* Conduct guidelines
* Conflict resolution

For the current list of *[CB or WG]* members, see the [README.md][].

### Collaborators

The *[insert CB/WG name]* GitHub repository is maintained by the *[CB or WG]*.
The Projects that compose and define this *[CB or WG]* maintain their own GitHub
repositories and additional Collaborators are added by the Project Maintainers
on an ongoing basis.

Individuals making significant and valuable contributions are made Collaborators
and given commit-access. These individuals are identified by the existing
Project Collaborators and their addition as Collaborators is discussed during
project meetings. The *[CB or WG]* may make recommendations for new
Collaborators to Projects based on observations and defined policies.

_Note:_ If you make a significant contribution and are not considered for commit
access, log an issue or contact a *[CB or WG]* member directly and it will be
brought up in the next *[CB or WG]* meeting.

Modifications of the contents of the *[CB or WG]* repository and its related
Project repositories are made on a collaborative basis. Anybody with a GitHub
account may propose a modification via pull request and it will be considered by
the Collaborators. All pull requests must be reviewed and accepted by a
Collaborator with sufficient expertise who is able to take full responsibility
for the change. In the case of pull requests proposed by an existing
Collaborator, an additional Collaborator is required for sign-off. Consensus
should be sought if additional Collaborators participate and there is
disagreement around a particular modification. See _Consensus Seeking Process_
below for further detail on the consensus model used for governance.

Collaborators may opt to elevate significant or controversial modifications, or
modifications that have not found consensus to the *[CB or WG]* for discussion
by assigning the ***[CB-agenda or WG-agenda]*** tag to a pull request or issue.
The *[CB or WG]* should serve as the final arbiter where required.

For the current list of Collaborators, see the [README.md][].

### *[CB or WG]* Membership

*[CB or WG]* seats are not time-limited. There is no fixed size of the *[CB or
WG]*. However, the expected target is between 6 and 12, to ensure adequate
coverage of important areas of expertise, balanced with the ability to make
decisions efficiently.

There is no specific set of requirements or qualifications for *[CB or WG]*
membership beyond these rules.

The *[CB or WG]* may add additional members to the *[CB or WG]* by unanimous
consensus.

A *[CB or WG]* member may be removed from the *[CB or WG]* by voluntary
resignation, or by unanimous consensus of all other *[CB or WG]* members.

Changes to *[CB or WG]* membership should be posted in the agenda, and may be
suggested as any other agenda item (see "*[CB or WG]* Meetings" below).

If an addition or removal is proposed during a meeting, and the full *[CB or
WG]* is not in attendance to participate, then the addition or removal is added
to the agenda for the subsequent meeting. This is to ensure that all members are
given the opportunity to participate in all membership decisions. If a *[CB or
WG]* member is unable to attend a meeting where a planned membership decision is
being made, then their consent is assumed.

No more than 1/3 of the *[CB or WG]* members may be affiliated with the same
employer. If removal or resignation of a *[CB or WG]* member, or a change of
employment by a *[CB or WG]* member, creates a situation where more than 1/3 of
the *[CB or WG]* membership shares an employer, then the situation must be
immediately remedied by the resignation or removal of one or more *[CB or WG]*
members affiliated with the over-represented employer(s) or through the addition
of one or more *[CB or WG]* members not affiliated with the over-represented
employer(s).

### *[CB or WG]* Meetings

The *[CB or WG]* shall meet regularly using tools that enable participation by
the community (e.g. quarterly on a Google Hangout On Air, or through any other
appropriate means selected by the *[CB or WG]*). The meeting shall be directed
by a moderator chosen by the *[CB or WG]*. Minutes or an appropriate recording
shall be taken and made available to the community through accessible public
postings.

Items are added to the *[CB or WG]* agenda that are considered contentious or
are modifications of governance, contribution policy, or *[CB or WG]*
membership.

Any community member or contributor can ask that something be added to the next
meeting's agenda by logging a GitHub Issue. Any Collaborator, *[CB or WG]*
member or the moderator can add the item to the agenda by adding the
***[CB-agenda or WG-agenda]*** tag to the issue.

Prior to each *[CB or WG]* meeting the moderator will share the Agenda with
members of the *[CB or WG]*. *[CB or WG]* members can add any items they like
to the agenda at the beginning of each meeting. The moderator and the *[CB or
WG]* cannot veto or remove items.

The *[CB or WG]* may invite persons or representatives from certain projects to
participate in a non-voting capacity.

The moderator is responsible for summarizing the discussion of each agenda item
and sends it as a pull request after the meeting.

### Consensus Seeking Process

The *[CB or WG]* follows a [Consensus Seeking][] decision-making model.

When an agenda item has appeared to reach a consensus the moderator will ask
"Does anyone object?" as a final call for dissent from the consensus.

If an agenda item cannot reach a consensus, a *[CB or WG]* member can call for
either a closing vote or a vote to table the issue to the next meeting. The call
for a vote must be seconded by a majority of the *[CB or WG]* or else the
discussion will continue. Simple majority wins.

Note that changes to *[CB or WG]* membership require unanimous consensus.  See
"*[CB or WG]* Membership" above.

### Moderation Policy

The [jQuery Foundation Moderation Policy][] applies to this *[CB or WG]*.

### Code of Conduct

The [jQuery Foundation Code of Conduct][] applies to this *[CB or WG]*.

[README.md]: ./README.md
[Consensus Seeking]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus-seeking_decision-making
[jQuery Foundation Moderation Policy]: https://github.com/jquery-foundation/TAC/Moderation-Policy.md
[jQuery Foundation Code of Conduct]: https://jquery.org/conduct/
