## Technical Steering Committee and Working Group Charter Template

Every Technical Steering Committee (TSC) and Working Group (WG) requires a
charter that describes the scope of the TSC's or WG's responsibilities. Once
written, new TSCs send a Pull Request that adds the charter to the Collaboration
Board's (CB) README.md while new WGs send a Pull Request to the CB's
WORKING_GROUPS.md document. The TSC or WG is considered to be officially
chartered once the PR adding the proposed charter is landed and merged into the
relevant document.

### Template: *[insert TSC/WG name]*

The *[insert TSC/WG name]* is jointly governed by an elected group of members
that is responsible for high-level guidance of this project or set of projects.

The *[TSC or WG]* has final authority over:

* Technical direction
* Governance and process (including this policy)
* Contribution policy
* GitHub repository hosting
* Conduct guidelines
* Maintaining the list of additional Collaborators

For the current list of *[TSC or WG]* members, see the [README.md][].

### Collaborators

The *[insert TSC/WG name]* GitHub repository is maintained by the *[TSC or WG]*
and additional Collaborators who are added by the *[TSC or WG]* on an ongoing
basis.

Individuals making significant and valuable contributions are made Collaborators
and given commit-access. These individuals are identified by the existing
Project Collaborators and their addition as Collaborators is discussed during
project meetings.

_Note:_ If you make a significant contribution and are not considered for commit
access, log an issue or contact a *[TSC or WG]* member directly and it will be
brought up in the next *[TSC or WG]* meeting.

Modifications of the contents of the *[insert TSC/WG repo(s)]* *[repository or
repositories]* are made on a collaborative basis. Anybody with a GitHub account
may propose a modification via pull request and it will be considered by the
Collaborators. All pull requests must be reviewed and accepted by a Collaborator
with sufficient expertise who is able to take full responsibility for the
change. In the case of pull requests proposed by an existing Collaborator, an
additional Collaborator is required for sign-off. Consensus should be sought if
additional Collaborators participate and there is disagreement around a
particular modification. See _Consensus Seeking Process_ below for further
detail on the consensus model used for governance.

Collaborators may opt to elevate significant or controversial modifications, or
modifications that have not found consensus to the *[TSC or WG]* for discussion
by assigning the ***[TSC-agenda or WG-agenda]*** tag to a pull request or issue.
The *[TSC or WG]* should serve as the final arbiter where required.

For the current list of Collaborators, see the [README.md][].

### *[TSC or WG]* Membership

*[TSC or WG]* seats are not time-limited. There is no fixed size of the *[TSC or
*WG]*. However, the expected target is between 6 and 12, to ensure adequate
*coverage of important areas of expertise, balanced with the ability to make
*decisions efficiently.

There is no specific set of requirements or qualifications for *[TSC or WG]*
membership beyond these rules.

The *[TSC or WG]* may add additional members to the *[TSC or WG]* by unanimous
consensus.

A *[TSC or WG]* member may be removed from the *[TSC or WG]* by voluntary
resignation, or by unanimous consensus of all other *[TSC or WG]* members.

Changes to *[TSC or WG]* membership should be posted in the agenda, and may be
suggested as any other agenda item (see "*[TSC or WG]* Meetings" below).

If an addition or removal is proposed during a meeting, and the full *[TSC or
WG]* is not in attendance to participate, then the addition or removal is added
to the agenda for the subsequent meeting. This is to ensure that all members are
given the opportunity to participate in all membership decisions. If a *[TSC or
WG]* member is unable to attend a meeting where a planned membership decision is
being made, then their consent is assumed.

No more than 1/3 of the *[TSC or WG]* members may be affiliated with the same
employer. If removal or resignation of a *[TSC or WG]* member, or a change of
employment by a *[TSC or WG]* member, creates a situation where more than 1/3 of
the *[TSC or WG]* membership shares an employer, then the situation must be
immediately remedied by the resignation or removal of one or more *[TSC or WG]*
members affiliated with the over-represented employer(s).

### *[TSC or WG]* Meetings

The *[TSC or WG]* shall meet regularly using tools that enable participation by
the community (e.g. weekly on a Google Hangout On Air, or through any other
appropriate means selected by the *[TSC or WG]*). The meeting shall be directed
by a moderator chosen by the *[TSC or WG]*. Minutes or an appropriate recording
shall be taken and made available to the community through accessible public
postings.

Items are added to the *[TSC or WG]* agenda that are considered contentious or
are modifications of governance, contribution policy, *[TSC or WG]* membership,
or release process.

The intention of the agenda is not to approve or review all patches; that should
happen continuously on GitHub and be handled by the larger group of
Collaborators.

Any community member or contributor can ask that something be added to the next
meeting's agenda by logging a GitHub Issue. Any Collaborator, *[TSC or WG]*
member or the moderator can add the item to the agenda by adding the
***[TSC-agenda or WG-agenda]*** tag to the issue.

Prior to each *[TSC or WG]* meeting the moderator will share the Agenda with
members of the *[TSC or WG]*. *[TSC or WG]* members can add any items they like
to the agenda at the beginning of each meeting. The moderator and the *[TSC or
WG]* cannot veto or remove items.

The *[TSC or WG]* may invite persons or representatives from certain projects to
participate in a non-voting capacity.

The moderator is responsible for summarizing the discussion of each agenda item
and sends it as a pull request after the meeting.

### Consensus Seeking Process

The *[TSC or WG]* follows a [Consensus Seeking][] decision-making model.

When an agenda item has appeared to reach a consensus the moderator will ask
"Does anyone object?" as a final call for dissent from the consensus.

If an agenda item cannot reach a consensus, a *[TSC or WG]* member can call for
either a closing vote or a vote to table the issue to the next meeting. The call
for a vote must be seconded by a majority of the *[TSC or WG]* or else the
discussion will continue. Simple majority wins.

Note that changes to *[TSC or WG]* membership require unanimous consensus.  See
"*[TSC or WG]* Membership" above.

### Moderation Policy

The [jQuery Foundation Moderation Policy][] applies to this *[TSC or WG]*.

### Code of Conduct

The [jQuery Foundation Code of Conduct][] applies to this *[TSC or WG]*.

[README.md]: ./README.md
[Consensus Seeking]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus-seeking_decision-making
[jQuery Foundation Moderation Policy]: https://github.com/jquery-foundation/CB/Moderation-Policy.md
[jQuery Foundation Code of Conduct]: https://jquery.org/conduct/
